README.md, before:

# Ethernaut solutions and write-ups in Foundry 🔨

If you are looking for the base repository to solve Ethernaut on your own, you
can find it in the `ready-to-use-scaffold-branch` branch.

_This repository uses the original version of the Ethernaut challenges. It is
not modified to the 0.8 version of Solidity._

## Additional information

You will find each writeup in the distinct folder located under
`src/levels/XX-LevelName`. Each solution is located in the appropriate folder in
the `test` directory under the same name convention as the folders above
`XX-LevelName.t.sol`.

## Acknowledgements

- The structure of my reports is based on the wonderful insights provided by
  [Joran Honig](https://twitter.com/joranhonig) in his
  [blog posts](https://joranhonig.nl/) and his
  [Twitter thread](https://twitter.com/joranhonig/status/1539578735631949825?s=20&t=Kp6iDNXfRKQUBbsb_Yj5SQ).
- Huge thanks to the Secureum Bootcamp and
  [Rajeev](https://twitter.com/0xRajeev) for making the knowledge accessible.
- I've based my repository structure on the work of these amazing people and
  their repositories:
  - [0xEval](https://github.com/0xEval/ethernaut-x-foundry)
  - [twpony](https://github.com/twpony/ethernaut-Foundry)
  - [ciaranmcveigh5](https://github.com/ciaranmcveigh5/ethernaut-x-foundry)
  - [StErMi](https://github.com/StErMi/foundry-ethernaut)
- [OpenZeppelin & Ethernaut wargame](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/ethernaut)
- [Foundry](https://github.com/foundry-rs/book)

Commit message:

📝 docs: add personal blog links

README.md, after:

# Ethernaut solutions and write-ups in Foundry 🔨

If you are looking for the base repository to solve Ethernaut on your own, you
can find it in the `ready-to-use-scaffold-branch` branch.

_This repository uses the original version of the Ethernaut challenges. It is
not modified to the 0.8 version of Solidity._

## Additional information

You will find each writeup in the distinct folder located under
`src/levels/XX-LevelName`. Each solution is located in the appropriate folder in
the `test` directory under the same name convention as the folders above
`XX-LevelName.t.sol`.

You will also find the write-ups
[on my blog](https://wizzardhat.com/complete-series/). In some cases, they are
much more detailed than those on GitHub 🧐

## Acknowledgements

- The structure of my reports is based on the wonderful insights provided by
  [Joran Honig](https://twitter.com/joranhonig) in his
  [blog posts](https://joranhonig.nl/) and his
  [Twitter thread](https://twitter.com/joranhonig/status/1539578735631949825?s=20&t=Kp6iDNXfRKQUBbsb_Yj5SQ).
- Huge thanks to the Secureum Bootcamp and
  [Rajeev](https://twitter.com/0xRajeev) for making the knowledge accessible.
- I've based my repository structure on the work of these amazing people and
  their repositories:
  - [0xEval](https://github.com/0xEval/ethernaut-x-foundry)
  - [twpony](https://github.com/twpony/ethernaut-Foundry)
  - [ciaranmcveigh5](https://github.com/ciaranmcveigh5/ethernaut-x-foundry)
  - [StErMi](https://github.com/StErMi/foundry-ethernaut)
- [OpenZeppelin & Ethernaut wargame](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/ethernaut)
- [Foundry](https://github.com/foundry-rs/book)
